hey guys Henry here with a tech ex life
do-it-yourself video tutorial on how to
make your very own smartphone tripod as
you can see that it's made out of an old
plastic cassette tape holder you're not
actually making the tripod as you can
see here's my tripod you're making the
holder that'll go on the tripod so that
your smartphone can fit in it I made
this specifically today for my samsung
droid charge as you can see it fits
perfectly snug in the holder if you
haven't seen my samsung droid charge
review video that's also on my channel
to go check that out after you watch
this this will work with any smartphone
and it does work it really does there
are some quick fix videos out there on
YouTube that'll show you cheap ways of
doing this this is a cheap way of doing
this if you have a cassette tape holder
that you're not using which I'm sure
everybody in the entire world does then
it's going to cost you no money there's
only uses of household materials which
I'll go through with you some equipment
and some power tools sorry you're going
to need power tools if you don't have
power tools you're probably too young to
do this tutorial anyway and I should get
to this before we start I should say if
you're 17 or under make sure that you
get parental supervision because power
tools are dangerous and during this
project you can get burns or cut or
plastic in the eye so make sure your
parents know what you're doing in a tent
this at your own risk but no matter what
age you are attempting this with
tutorial at do various test runs on a
spare cassette tape that you're not
planning on using so you can make sure
you're doing all these steps correct
so first you'll need a tripod with a
tripod head any tripod works I'm
assuming a cassette tape holder half the
one that does not have the Polk's
sticking out of it the one that has the
bottom small bottom slab and then the
large slab here you're also going to
need a pen for marking cut a pair of
goggles an elastic band a heat gun I
used an Ungaro done a rotary tool I use
the black and decker r-tx three speed
rotary tool an object with a similar
depth to your smartphone not height or
width depth so i used a yellow paint
brush because it had a similar depth to
the droid charge a drill I use the S kil
38 inch 6425 drill various heads or bits
to insert into the drill so you can
actually drill a large one for the
camera opening for this that's about the
size of your camera camera sizes differ
so you'll have to figure that out
yourself and a small one i used a
quarter inch drill bit for the insert so
you can put the tripod head inside of
the cassette holder i also used a
threader a quarter-inch threader for the
small hole so that it could tightly
screw into the tripod head if your
tripod head just sticks right in there
then that's fine you don't have to use a
threader but it's just not as secure
without the threader you just know that
it's going to stick on if you thread the
whole you've made so let's start this
tutorial so first you'll use the rotary
tool to cut the left and right
sides of the holder not going through
the bottom of the cassette holder so
you'll just cut off the left and right
edges of the cassette tape holder
without going through the bottom you'll
also use the rotary tool to smooth off
the edges of where you've just cut so
your phone doesn't get scratched or
dented you don't want a smartphone
getting dented from this stupid tutorial
next you'll heat up the small plastic
part of the holder that's not the bottom
the actual bottom part of the tape
holder or the large windows lab you'll
be heating up the piece that's standing
straight up like the large windows lab
puts actually a quarter of its size use
the heat gun repeatedly moving left and
right over it until it becomes soft and
easy to shape but not melting then
insert the object you picked with the
similar depth to your phone like I did
with the brush inside the tape holder
and push the now soft small slab outward
away from the larger slab allowing for
more space so your phone can fit in the
holder snug at this point one once the
plastic cools you can try fitting in
your phone see if it fits and repeat
until it does so after your phone fits
snug into the new heated holder position
it to where you feel it's most secure
and comfortable take the pen and trace
the size of your camera on the outside
of the large slab of plastic then remove
your phone and take the drill and insert
the larger head making sure the head
will make a hole no smaller than the
size of your camera little larger is
fine but not too big then drill inside
the tracing that you just made until
there's a hole then place your phone
back in and test the camera to make sure
there's no plastic covering your camera
and there's no glare and that everything
is shooting straight through then you
can remove your phone once again next
use the pen and make the point on the
bottom of your holder
preferably in the middle where the
tripod head will be inserted then take
the smaller head I use the quarter inch
switch it into the drill header bit
whichever you believe it's called and
drill through that marked point you just
made going all the way through if you're
using the threader then screw that in
right after you've taken the bit out
screw it in first and then out don't
pull it out screw it in and screw it out
so that the threads are created for your
tripod head screw now insert the tripod
head and voila you now have a
do-it-yourself smartphone tripod holder
so test your smartphone camera on your
tripod make sure it doesn't fall out by
wrapping the rubber band around the
holder while the phone is inside the
holder do not tilt the tripod left or
right since the edges are now gone
tilting up and down as well as panning
left and right are totally fine just
don't tilt the tripod left or right
because your smartphone may fall out so
that's it thanks for watching leave
comments below if you need more help
like this video subscribe for more
tutorials reviews updates and news
coming soon I'm Henry and good luck